- [Instructor] One effect of the type erasure process
is a generation of bridge methods.
This is applicable in certain unanticipated situation
where some subclasses extend generic classes
and they're needed, because the type erasure
for the overriding method in the subclass is different
from the type erasure of the method in the superclass.
So in order to handle this kind of a situation,
Java compiler generates a synthetic method for you
which is the bridge method.
Now, this is just an implementation detail.
You are never going to see this method,
you are never going to invoke it either.
This is just an interesting thing
that you need to be aware of.
Let's explain bridge methods to ourselves with an example,
we know of the Java API interface comparator
it's used to compare to objects
and it looks like this, public interface comparator of T,
T is the type parameter here.
And inside we have a method compare
which has got two parameters of the T type.
Now let's say you to write your own competitor
implementation, to compare two integer objects.
In that case you can write a class like this,
public class int comparator,
implements comparator of integer.
So if you recollect a generic class hierarchy's discussion
we had stated that sometimes a sub class
can specify a type argument directly
for the super type in the implements clause.
This is that case.
Because of this, int competitor becomes a generic clause,
and that's why the compare method of int comparator
has parameters of the integer type.
Now, when both of these entities get compiled,
after type erasure this is they look like.
The comparator interface looks like this,
public interface comparator
and now the type parameter T is erased.
And inside, we are left with the compare method
whose parameters are of the object type.
As far as our class is concerned
which is int comparator, it looks like this,
public class int comparator implements comparator,
and now the type argument for the comparator interface
in the implements clause is erased.
Inside we are left with a compare method
whose parameters are of the in type.
So now you see that the type erasure process
in both of these yields different results, the parameters
in the compare method of the subclass are of integer type.
Whereas the parameters in the compare method
of the comparator interface are of the object type.
This means that your int comparator class
does not technically override the compare method
because the signatures are different.
So in order to make this work
the compiler will add an additional method
for you which is the bridge method.
And it looks like this, the line that is marked
in red is the bridge method that was generated
by the compiler.
The signature of this method is exactly same
as the one that you'll find in the super class version.
Then this bridge method internally calls
the subclass version of the compare method.
So this is how Java compiler solves the type erasure issue
for you and preserves polymorphism
in generic types after type erasure.